Authenticate native and pam_password with iRODS 4.3+ auth framework (#685)
irods/python-irodsclient: README.md

directly to the constructor as keyword arguments, even though it is
required when they are placed in the environment file.

Creating a PAM or Native Authentication File
--------------------------------------------

The following free functions may be used to create the authentication secrets files (called
`.irodsA` per the convention of iRODS's iCommands):
   - `irods.client_init.write_native_irodsA_file`
   - `irods.client_init.write_pam_irodsA_file`

These functions can roughly be described as duplicating the function of `iinit`,

> provided that a valid `irods_environment.json` has already been created.

Reviewer: Apologies for the pedantry...

`iinit` is also used to "initialize" a client environment from scratch, asking the user a series of questions such as username, hostname/port of the server with which to connect, and zone name, and then generating an `irods_environment.json` file. My understanding is that the client environment already needs to be set up one way or another in order to use this.

So, this is really duplicating the "authentication" functionality of `iinit`. Not sure if that's even worth communicating here, but just wanted to point out that it's not a *complete* replacement for `iinit`, technically.

Author: done!

is raised to warn of any older `.irodsA` file that might otherwise have been overwritten.

Equivalently to the above, we can issue the following command.

```bash
bash$ prc_write_irodsA.py native <<<"${MY_CURRENT_IRODS_PASSWORD}"
```

The redirect may of course be left off, in which case the user is prompted for the iRODS password
and echo of the keyboard input will be suppressed, in the style of `iinit`.  Regardless
which technique is used, no password will be visible on the terminal during or after input.

For the `pam_password` scheme, typically SSL/TLS must first be enabled to avoid sending data related
to the password - or even sending the raw password itself - over a network connection in the clear.

Thus for `pam_password` authentication to work well, we should first ensure, when setting up the
client environment, to include within `irods_environment.json` the appropriate SSL/TLS connection
parameters.  In a pinch, `iinit` can be used to verify this prerequisite is fulfilled,
as its invocation would then create a valid .irodsA from merely prompting the user for their PAM password.

> Once again, this can also be done either using the free function directly:

Reviewer: Perhaps omit the word "either" here? I realize the sentence continues below, but I had to read it a few times to get it. Maybe it's just me. :)

Author: done

```python
irods.client_init.write_pam_irodsA_file(getpass.getpass('Enter current PAM password -> '))
```

or from the Bash command shell:

```bash
bash$ prc_write_irodsA.py pam_password <<<"${MY_CURRENT_PAM_PASSWORD}"
```

> As a final note, in the "pam_password" scheme the default SSL requirement can be disabled (preferably for
> purposes of testing only!):

Reviewer: I think we should include a stronger warning against doing this outside of testing. I leave the wording up to you, but maybe something like this?

```suggestion
As a final note, in the "pam_password" scheme the default SSL requirement can be disabled.
**Warning:** Disabling the SSL requirement may cause user passwords to be sent over the network
in the clear. This should only be done for purposes of testing. Here's how to do it:
```

directly to the constructor as keyword arguments, even though it is
required when they are placed in the environment file.

Creating a PAM or Native Authentication File
--------------------------------------------

The following free functions may be used to create the authentication secrets files (called
`.irodsA` per the convention of iRODS's iCommands):
   - `irods.client_init.write_native_irodsA_file`
   - `irods.client_init.write_pam_irodsA_file`

These functions can roughly be described as duplicating the function of `iinit`,
provided that a valid `irods_environment.json` has already been created.

Each of the above functions can take a cleartext password and write an appropriately encoded
version of it into an authentication in the appropriate location.  That location is
`~/.irods/.irodsA` unless the environment variable IRODS_AUTHENTICATION_FILE has been set
in the command shell to dictate an alternative file path.

As an example, here we write a native `.irodsA` file using the first of the two functions.  We

> provide the one required argument, a password string entered - in this case - interactively at the

Reviewer 2: Feels like `entered` should be on the right of the hyphen, but even that is weird to me.

I keep looking at the part about `one required argument,` and it makes the inclusion of `entered` seem out of place.

I don't think what you have is incorrect, it just means some readers will need to read the entire sentence to not be confused. Could be me.

Author: changing to: " We provide the one required argument, a password string which entered interactively at the terminal."

> provide the one required argument, a password string which entered interactively at the

Author: Done. squashed as well

terminal.

```bash

> bash$ echo '{ "irods_user_name":"rods",

Reviewer 2: I don't see any other code block use `bash$`. Let's replace that with `$` to match other code blocks, unless it's important.

Author: Agreed. Done.

              ... # other parameters as needed
            }'> ~/.irods/irods_environment.json
bash$ python -c "import irods.client_init, getpass
irods.client_init.write_native_irodsA_file(getpass.getpass('Enter iRODS password -> '))"
```

By default, when an `.irodsA` file already exists, it will be overwritten. If however the
`overwrite` parameter is set to `False`, an exception of type `irods.client_init.irodsA_already_exists`
is raised to warn of any older `.irodsA` file that might otherwise have been overwritten.

Equivalently to the above, we can issue the following command.

```bash
bash$ prc_write_irodsA.py native <<<"${MY_CURRENT_IRODS_PASSWORD}"
```

The redirect may of course be left off, in which case the user is prompted for the iRODS password
and echo of the keyboard input will be suppressed, in the style of `iinit`.  Regardless

> which technique is used, no password will be visible on the terminal during or after input.

Reviewer 2: Missing `of` after `Regardless`.

For the `pam_password` scheme, typically SSL/TLS must first be enabled to avoid sending data related
to the password - or even sending the raw password itself - over a network connection in the clear.

> Thus for `pam_password` authentication to work well, we should first ensure, when setting up the

Reviewer 2: Missing comma after `Thus`?

client environment, to include within `irods_environment.json` the appropriate SSL/TLS connection
parameters.  In a pinch, `iinit` can be used to verify this prerequisite is fulfilled,

> as its invocation would then create a valid .irodsA from merely prompting the user for their PAM password.

Reviewer 2: Noticed the lack of backticks around this instance of .irodsA.

Author: Yes.

Once again, this can also be done either using the free function directly:

```python
irods.client_init.write_pam_irodsA_file(getpass.getpass('Enter current PAM password -> '))
```

or from the Bash command shell:

```bash
bash$ prc_write_irodsA.py pam_password <<<"${MY_CURRENT_PAM_PASSWORD}"
```

> As a final note, in the "pam_password" scheme the default SSL requirement can be disabled.

Author: Done

> As a final note, in the "pam_password" scheme the default SSL requirement can be disabled.

Author: done

```

The redirect may be left off, in which case the user is prompted for the iRODS password
and echo of the keyboard input will be suppressed.  (Regardless which technique is used,
no password will be visible on the terminal during or after input.)

For the `pam_password` scheme, typically SSL/TLS must first be enabled to avoid sending data related
to the password - or even sending the raw password itself - over a network connection in the clear.

Thus, for `pam_password` authentication to work well, we should first ensure when setting up the
client environment that the `irods_environment.json` file includes the appropriate
SSL/TLS connection parameters.  If present, `iinit` can be used to verify this condition is fulfilled,
as of course its invocation would create a valid .irodsA from merely prompting the user for their
PAM password

But if we wish to use the Python client for this purpose instead, we can run:

```python
irods.client_init.write_pam_irodsA_file(getpass.getpass('Enter current PAM password -> '))
```

Or from the Bash command shell, we simply run:

```bash
$ prc_write_irodsA.py pam_password <<<"${MY_CURRENT_PAM_PASSWORD}"
```

> again leaving out the redirection if password prompting is preferable.

Reviewer: Maybe show what that looks like, just in case?

Reviewer: Right, sorry. Wasn't sure if it would be helpful to show with the redirection left out so the reader can see the prompt. Now that I'm looking at it again, that actually doesn't seem very useful. Feel free to just resolve this. More help is (usually) better, though, so, up to you.

Author: Resolving, I guess it's clear enough for now...

```python
import irods.client_init as iinit
iinit.write_native_irodsA_file(irods_password)
```

If an .irodsA file exists already, it will be overwritten by default; however, if these functions'
overwrite parameter is set to `False`, an exception of type `irods.client_init.irodsA_already_exists`
will be raised to indicate the older .irodsA file is present.

From the command line, we can also run:
```bash
$ prc_write_irodsA.py native <<<"${MY_CURRENT_IRODS_PASSWORD}"
```

The redirect may be left off, in which case the user is prompted for the iRODS password
and echo of the keyboard input will be suppressed.  In neither case does the password
become visible on the terminal.

```bash
$ prc_write_irodsA.py native <<<"${MY_CURRENT_IRODS_PASSWORD}"
```

> Currently

Author: Yes

> Currently

Author: done
